In this video, we are going to learn how to
connect the mikrotik router and Cisco router
to our computer. If we look at this topology,
note that the computer is connected to a switch,
then the mikrotik and Cisco router are also
connected to the switch. Later we will configure
the ip address 192.168.1.1 on the computer,
192.168.1.2 on the mikrotik, and 192.168.1.3
on cisco. Here we know that mikrotik and cisco
are on gns3, meaning we need to create a virtual
interface on our computer, why? Because gns3
is virtual, so we must make a virtual interface
on our computer to connecting our computer
with router on gns3.
To create a virtual interface, you can enter
start, then type hdwwiz, this stands for hardware
wizard. next, here, chose recommended, next,
next, choose network adapters, , select Microsoft
on the left, and on the right, choose loopback
adapter, next, next, and finish.
After create a virtual interface, we need
to restart our computer. But before that let’s
save our project on gns3 first.
Okay, I'm done restarting my computer. To
prove that our virtual interface is already up
We can enter the open network and sharing
center. Then change adapter settings
here we can see that we have Microsoft loopback
adapter, which is the Local area connection 2
Now let’s configure the ip address for
this interface. According to our topology,
the IP Address is 192.168.1.1.
Next, let’s open our project on gns3. enter
the project library, select our project, then ok
Okay here we see mikrotik and cisco router.
Next we need to import a cloud
the cloud will act as our computer. We also need to
import an Ethernet switch.
Next we need to configure this cloud to act
as our computer. Right click on it, and choose configure
Here we have to check show special
Ethernet interface
Here select local area connection 2, local area connection 2 is our
loopback adapter interface. Then choose add
and okay. Finally, let’s connect the cable
from our computer to the switch
from the switch to the mikrotik, from Cisco to the
switch. Now let’s turn on the mikrotik & cisco router
if the cpu usage reach 100%, we can do auto
idle pc on Cisco router.
Now let’s try to configure the IP address
on the mikrotik and Cisco router, but before
that it is strongly recommended to look at
the interface that is installed on the mikrotik
and Cisco, by clicking this icon, here we
can see that the mikrotik is in Ether 0
but the interface naming on mikrotik router is
started from ethernet1, so ether 0 here means
ether1, then on the cisco, the interface is
fa0 / 0.
Ok, let’s configure the ip address on the
mikrotik router first.
The mikrotik ip address will be 192.168.1.2. Next let’s configure
the ip address on the Cisco router.
The ip address of cisco router will be 192.168.1.3.
Now, let’s try to ping from our computer
to the Mikrotik and Cisco router.
Open the command prompt, let’s ping the mikrotik
first, which is 192.168.1.2, okay it works,
then let’s try ping to the Cisco router.
Okay, it also works. Now we have successfully
connected our computer with Cisco and Mikrotik
routers.
In the next video, we are going to learn how
to configure ssh on mikrotik & cisco.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video